Welcome back in this lecture we're going to discuss backgrounds and Borders see SS So we've already
discussed the color property in other really common property to adjust the background property and borders
property and the various properties that are similar or related to them.
We're also going to touch back on divs and spans that we discuss in the HTL crash course.
Let's get started.
All right.
Here have my basic H-2A metafile and I've linked it to the stylesheet master about C Ss and my master
that C Ss is currently blank.
Let's add a few elements to our H-2A.
And then we'll style some of their properties in the SS will begin by just creating a simple paragraph
tag and we'll say this is a paragraph but I'm also going to add in outside the div and then lets put
in a div tag.
So this div tag notice it's a division right now.
I'm not going to worry about class.
We'll talk about that in an upcoming lecture.
Instead I'm just going to have this division and I'm going to put in some paragraph text inside this
division so I'll say I'm inside the div and let's put in another paragraph tag.
Also inside the div.
And finally we'll put in one more paragraph tan I'll say inside the div thought thought thought and
then we're going to add in a span tab.
So get a little bit of space here and then start typing outspan and you should see span and were able
to autocomplete that.
Or you can just type it up manually.
The Open and span tags so inside of this will say in the span.
OK so I'm going to save those changes.
So how this paragraph and I have this division.
And when I refresh my basic's thought each time.
Right now my CSSA is blank so I just see this is a paragraph outside the div I'm inside.
Also inside a div and then inside the div in a span.
So right now the divs in the spans they're not really showing up as any different than the other paragraphs.
OK now let's add in some CSSA style calls so we'll come back to master that CSSA and I'm actually going
to apply a style to the entire body and weren't going to explore is the background property so notice
as you begin to type background there's all kinds of property you can affect such as the origin the
size image position color and so on.
I'm just Mikol basic background.
And here if I provide a color let's say Grey for instance.
Save this and refresh anything that is within the body is going to have its background color changed
to grey and you should be careful with this sort of choice because you can make something really awful
like red and then you'll have this bright ugly red website but maybe you want it that way.
So it's also more power to you.
Now as an option where you can do is also provide a u r l image so it can say background.
Your L and I have opened here some image from an splash dot com and you can really point out to any
image hosted on line.
If I just copy this image address of this cute little puppy and paste it here into my actual Your L
tag.
The Riego still say background your URL and this really long image save those changes and will come
back here refreshed.
And now if you zoom out you should see this image and notice how it's actually being repeated.
So an option to make that stop is to add an background dash repeat.
And then you can say no repeat and look at this autocomplete that's actually telling us the option.
So that's really nice.
We can have it rippee along the x axis or y axis or just no repeat save that and only refreshes page
you only see that picture once.
Now for pretty much all our sites we're not going to really be having your backgrounds.
I just want to show you that you have that option.
OK.
So let me go ahead and comment all this out and I can comment this out just by highlighting all this
and then doing control forward slash.
Or you can just manually add and forward slash Asterix to the beginning and the end of whatever you
want to comment out.
So to say that it won't be affecting the body anymore.
Let's refresh this page.
There we go.
So now we have it nice and clean white and let's go back and now discuss these divs and this particular
span.
So let's imagine that I want to just style a certain portion of my website maybe I don't want to style
every single paragraph tag.
Instead I only want to style some of the paragraph tags.
This is where something like a div can come in real handy.
So what I am going to do is just refer to that div and then change the background of that division.
So I'll say background and notice by default.
I can just say background blue background color.
Ill treat it the same way I'm going to say that.
Set the background of blue here.
Refresh and everything inside the div is going to have background blue.
We can also affect the border.
So if you say border and give this a color such as orange save that then I can color this border that's
around the div but notice right now I'm not seeing any effect and that's because we haven't specified
how thick or how wide we want that border.
So I can say border dash with and then I can say medium thin or thick.
And then we also have to provide a border style sort of say border dash style and there's dasht grooves
hidden dotted will say dotted for now save that refresh.
And now I see a dotted orange border around this.
And you can play around with these border styles solid is another style that's really commonly used
reforest that.
And now you see this solid orange around that.
Keep in mind you can also provide actual pixels here so maybe you say 20 x for pixels if you want to
make it really thick or if you want to just have it be really thin maybe just say two pixels or something
like that refresh.
And I see this thinner orange.
OK.
So the main idea here is that you can affect the background color.
You can also set your all to your background.
You have border but the border is not going to show up unless you say border with and border style.
Now there is a shorthand for this and often what people do is instead of saying border border with and
border style you can actually combine all of these to just one line by providing it in this order so
you can say border orange to pick's solid and let's make it thicker something like 10 pixels.
Let's change the colors to red and let's make it dasht here.
So you can provide a single line code like this.
And when we refresh this you'll see that taken effect.
So since people like to effect borders without having to write border with border style CSSA will also
accept these kind of three terms just linked to border.
OK.
So there are options for editing background them border and again notice what's happening.
It's only affecting div tags.
So just to show you again let's stylize all the paragraph tags.
I can say color and maybe make it really obvious something like all paragraphs should be yellow.
I run this and now all the paragraphs are yellow including the ones outside the div.
Now let's imagine I want to affect this one in the span in a span.
All I need to do is say span and then we can give it a specific background such as a red background
and we can change its color to something maybe black should be pretty obvious.
Ok so now I refresh this page and I see in a span with a red background in black font color.
All right.
That's really the basics of what we're going to discuss here.
Again you have these background parameters these border parameters and you can run border either border
with border style or all as a single line.
And then we have the ability to tag paragraphs as well as divs and spans.
OK.
I hope that clarified why we use divs and spans as well.
Coming up next we're going to talk about selectors which is probably one of the most important aspects
of using C-s us being able to use IDS selectors and class selectors.
That's really what we're going to be doing most in our real life projects.
So it's going to be important to understand that very next lecture for this lecture.
All you need to understand is that you can affect backgrounds in Borders and you can call div and span
tags specifically if you have any questions feel free to post the Kewaunee forums.
We'll see you at the next lecture.